# First Day of Class

- Got into the VMs
- Did introductions, Dune 2 featured prominently
- Did some git setup and created our repo.
- Making a change 

## Started a Todos API

- Created an Asp.Net Core API Project
    - Did a "minimal" API - that means we aren't using controllers. (We'll do that later).
    - While we are doing development on our machine, we wanted our API to run at `http://localhost:1337` so we edited the `launchSettings.json` file in the `Properties` folder of the API to use port 1337. We also told it *not* to launch our browser to see the OpenApi documentation
        - You can still get to that by going to `http://localhost:1337/swagger` in the browser.
    - we removed the sample code for the Weather Forecast.
    - We added a `app.MapGet` to handle any http GET requests to the `/status` resource.
    - We just had it return a 200.
    - We briefly saw how to "test" it with the Postman tool.
    - We looked at `.http` files in Visual Studio for manually testing an API.
    - We learned that the API has to be **running** to send and handle a request (look in the Windows Terminal ([>_])) 
    - We added an xUnit Test Project.
    - We looked at tests using the `[Fact]` attribute.
    - We briefly looked at tests with the `[Theory]` attribute.
    - We wrote a test using the `HttpClient` to make a call to our API to "automate" what we were doing with the `.http` file so it can be run locally repeatably, and in our pipeline.
    - We used the Asp.Net TestHost to host the API in our tests to speed them up and make them less "flaky". (no need to run the API first).
    - We used a little Nuget package called "Alba" to simplify our test.


## Possible Questions You Should be Able to Answer after Day 1

- What is .NET? What is .NET Core?
    - .NET is a framework for software development on the Windows platform.
    - .NET Core is xplat .NET - it is a subset of .NET Framework (doesn't have everything), but most of what you'd need.
    - .NET Core is open source. On Github. 
    - Supports multiple programming languages, the most common BY FAR is C#, but also VB.NET, C++, F#
    - C# - It is a "Classical Object-Oriented Programming Language"
- What is a "Web API" (or a RESTful API, or an HTTP API, all the same) any why do we create them?
    - We are going to build a service that a lot of developers already know the basics of interacting with.
        - Common - and just about any piece of software can use this service, because EVERYTHING nearly can do HTTP.
        - Why do we do this at all?
            - Distributed applications
            - Distributing knowledge
                - You may be on a team that builds the service that knows how to do something CRUCIAL to the business.
                - You work with the business people, are responsive to their needs.
                - Anyone else in the company that wants to do thing "X" (your thing) HAS to go through your service to do it.
                - But they don't have to (*and shouldn't*) know how it works, because that will change at a different rate than the
                    code they are working on.
                - Late-Bound means "only verified at run time"
                - Early-Bound means "verified at compile time"
- Why do we, as developers, write automated tests for our code?
    - "Developer" - tests we write as we write the application.
        - They are either "white box" or "gray box" tests which mean
            - They know how the code is written.
    - Show our *understading* of the business requirement.
    - We stink at doing complex steps reliably and repeatedly.
    - Some tests have to test a lot of stuff in sort of a speculative way.
    - To design our application from the perspective of the user of that code.
- What is a "Project Reference" in Visual Studio?
    - A project reference is to *another* project in the same solution so that the project referencing the other project
      can use the types in the referenced project.

- What is NuGet?
    - It is the package manager for .NET stuff - it is early bound, you can update and redeploy as you see fit,
    however, to publisher of that package cannot force you to update.
- Please note: Nobody is expecting you to answer questions like "What is the method on the web application you use to tell routing how to handle a GET (or POST, etc.) request at runtime? Or anyting about the C# stuff at all yet.

## Keyboard Shortcuts

- In Visual Studio Code
    - to open an integrated terminal window, hit `Ctrl+Backtick`
    