# Good Morning! It's TUESDAY, March 5, 2024

## Start and Log In To Your Vms Please

> https://labs.azure.com/virtualmachines
> Toggle your machine to start.
> Once Started, connect.


## Today

0. Check-In
    - How's things?
    - Learning your tools.
    - Learning your language/libraries/frameworks/platforms
1. Review Questions from Yesterday
2. Do a *bit* more on our API.
    - Todos resource
    - Adding a todo
    - Getting all todos.
    - Getting a specific todo
    - Mark an item as complete
3. Learn us some C#!


- "Imposter's Syndrome"
    - A collection of more than one psychological disorder.
    - Imposter - someone that misrepresents their skills or ability.

"The bad news is you are falling through space with no parachute, the good news is there is no ground".

"Select isn't broken" - 
"Ask the duck" - "Rubber Ducky Coding"

"Don't personify computers, they don't like it."

## Questions / Points from Today

1. Containers - We just started, but what did we use them for?
    - To run software we don't have on our machine - we used it for Postgres and Adminer (database and admin tool)
    - What are some benefits of running software in a container for development work?
        - Dev/Prod parity. We want to run the same things our app will use in each environment. 
    - What is that `docker-compose.yml` file doing?
        - Easy way to start up multiple containers at the same time.
2. HTTP - 
    - What is a "resource"
        - A meaningful thing we want to expose from our API
    - What are the key HTTP methods? What are there *semantics* (i.e. what are you saying to the user of your API when your resource implements each of the HTTP methods)?
        - In the notes
    - What is a "representation" in HTTP?
        - A "point in time" snapshot of the resource in a particular format (e.g. JSON, XML, etc.)
3. Unit Testing
    - What is Unit Testing? (What is the "unit")?
        - Usually a method - in isolation from it's dependencies.
    - Is Unit Testing *enough*?
        - No. We need to test WITH the dependencies in place.
    - What is Test-Driven-Development (TDD)?
        - What is the "form" of TDD? (what are the steps)
            - RED->GREEN->Refactor->Repeat
    - In .NET why do we:
        - Put our tests in a separate project from the code under test (known as the "System Under Test", or *yech* "SUT")
            - To keep testing concerns out of our code.
            - To run them in CI
        - Why do we keep our Unit Tests separate from other kinds of tests?
            - To run them at different "stages" of our CI
            - To optimize fast running Unit Tests from other slower tests.